there are many many ways to write a
phone you can write their own rules you
can make the rules of your play and as
long as you stick with them then it then
it works well it varies according to
what I'm writing what I do think theater
should be theatrical I try and vary
stuff up quite deliberately you can be
completely naturalistic
or you can be completely expressionistic
I've written a largely surreal piece
about giant hamster you know you can be
as stylized and this poetic as you want
to be certainly things in the room
started to change a little bit the wall
started to fade away and he start to
come out of the realistic setting of the
play and we try to create roughly what
it would feel like in the middle of an
atomic blast
in what I was known for what you know
I'm in in the history books as having
done is you know introduced cinema
techniques into the theater I think it's
wise to develop a range of styles both
to discover what you like to write and
to keep people surprised a scene on a
mountaintop next to a scene in an office
and then next to a scene back at home so
you've got to have variation within a
play and as a writer different places
different social classes different races
different groups and obviously it's an
overtly political way of writing but
obviously if you write across a canvas
of changing locations and changing times
and changing places one of the things
you're doing is is making a claim for
history which is that we aren't just
people who live as it were in a bell jar
we are very different from people who
lived a thousand years ago
I am very different from a Chinese
peasant and one of the things that
theatre must do is show how people
became the people they became and what
they might become what their potential
for becoming something different is now
I find that very difficult to do in
plays that are set in one room I'm aware
that I was trying to imitate the real
world but also be aware it's not the
real world it allows me to focus on an
element of society or people which then
and gets them to question you know
question how they feel about that they
may not agree they made hated it's
that's fine I think the really important
thing for me is that you're true to your
own voice and your own authenticity as a
writer it's it's a political and social
form the epic theater and to me it's a
very exciting concert when you really
find your voice as a writer what you
write is inevitable there's there's no
other way of writing it there's any one
way that can come out
you